= **Basic Concepts** =

== **What is a Wiki ?** ==

A wiki is a website that allows  the easy creation and editing of any number of interlinked web pages via a web browser using a simplified markup language or a WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) text editor. With a wiki, any user can edit the site content, including other users' contributions via a Web browser without any technical knowledge. Wikis are typically powered by wiki software and are often used to create collaborative wiki websites, to power community websites, for personal note taking, in corporate intranets, and in knowledge management systems. Overall, Wikis are influential, shaping collaborative online content development, and now becoming increasingly popular.

== **What is eXo Wiki ?** ==

eXo Wiki is an application of the eXo Knowledge. It is used for internal corporate project or committee group. eXo Wiki along with other eXo Knowledge applications such as Answers & and Forum will complete an ideal suite that helps users to enhance their experience on collaboration activities an build valuable knowledge center for clients. It is an enterprise wiki application focused on content productivity for portal users and complete stack as a tool for forging unstructured knowledge. 

== **Page Hierachy in eXo Wiki** ==

eXo Wiki is organized as a tree of pages and pages can have any number of sub-pages. The Hierarchy is reflected at User Interface by the Breadcrumb. When adding a page, it is always added as a sub-page of the current one. eXo Wiki is a wiki platform, it can host several wikis. So you can have wiki for :portals, groups or users. However, the page hierarchy is not reflected in the URLs as they are accessible flatly by their URL.

== **Wiki Spaces** ==

Spaces represent a partitioning of wiki data. A space is a tree of pages. So, space partitioning means they are independent trees. This separation is intentional in order to allow eXo Wiki to provide silos of knowledge for different interests groups. 

There are 3 types of spaces :

* portal : a wiki for the current portal
* group : a wiki available for members of a group
* user : a wiki for personal pages

{{note}}
* In this document we refer to Spaces simply as wikis. We are speaking of portal wikis, group wikis, user wikis.
* Any space has an implicit root page named WikiHome
{{/note}}


== **Bookmarkable URLs** ==

eXo Wiki provides permanent bookmarkable URLs to wiki pages. eXo Wiki will resolve wiki pages by inspecting the URL used to call it and outputing links as clean URLs in the form :

{{code}}http://hostname/$CONTAINER/$ACCESS/$SITE/wiki/[$OWNER_TYPE/$OWNER]/$WIKI_PAGE_URI{{/code}}

Details: 

$CONTAINER$ is the portal container

$ACCESS is 'private' or 'public'

$SITE is the portal site (ex: 'classic')

$OWNER_TYPE can be 'group' or 'user'

$OWNER is the wiki owner, it can be a username or a groupname

$NAV_URI is the URI of the navigation bound to a page where eXo Wiki portlet is laid

$WIKI_PAGE_URI is the URI inferred automatically from the wiki page name.

Any wiki page should be accessible by a friendly URL that looks like a portal URL.
For example 

* Portal wiki : http://hostname/portal/public/classic/wiki/eXo+Wiki+Specification
* Group wiki : http://hostname/portal/private/classic/wiki/group/platform/administrators/Admin+Guide
* Personal wiki page http://hostname/portal/private/classic/wiki/user/john/Sandbox
